--- Page 1 ---
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY WORDINGS 
 
 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Co. Ltd. 
 
Registered Office: 
 
Peninsula Business Park, Tow er A, 15th Floor, 
 
G.K. Marg, Low er Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen) 
 
Fax: 022 6693 8170 
 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 CIN:U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 2 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited (We, Our or Us) w ill 
provide the insurance described in this Policy and any endorsements 
thereto for the Insured Period as defined in this Policy, to the Insured 
Persons detailed in the Policy Schedule and in reliance upon the 
statements contained in the Proposal, w hich shall be the basis of this 
Policy and are deemed to be incorporated herein in return for the 
payment of the required premium w hen due and compliance with all 
applicable provisions of this Policy. 
 
The insurance provided under this Policy is only with respect to such 
and so many of the benefits as are indicated by a specific amount set 
opposite in the Policy Schedule. 
 
This Policy w ill only be in force if the Policy Schedule is signed by a 
person We have authorized. 
 
For Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
 
6b. External Congenital Anomaly - w hich is in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body. 
 
6. 
Condition precedent - means a policy term or condition upon 
which the insurer’s liability under the policy is conditional upon. 
 
7. 
Day Care Centre - means any institution established for day care 
treatment of illness and / or injuries or a medical setup w ithin a 
hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered 
and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply with all 
minimum criteria as under: 
 
a. 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
 
b. 
has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; 
 
c. 
has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where 
surgical procedures are carried out-; 
 
Authorized Signatory 
 
Registered Office: 
 
TATA AIG General Insurance Company Limited, 
Peninsula Business Park, Tow er A, 15th Floor, G. K. Marg, 
Low er Parel, Mumbai- 400013, Maharashtra, India 
Toll Free No. 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen) 
 
Visit us at www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No.:108 
 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
 
 
Part A: General Definitions 
 
We use certain words in this Policy and Schedule, which have a 
specific meaning and are shown under the heading of General 
Definitions in the Policy. They have this meaning w herever they appear 
in the Policy or Schedule. Where the context so permits, references to 
the singular shall also include references to the plural and references to 
the male gender shall also include references to the female gender, 
and vice-versa in both cases. 
 
1. 
Accident - means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event, 
caused by external visible and violent means. 
 
2. 
Age - means completed years as at the Commencement Date. 
 
3. 
Break in policy - occurs at the end of the existing policy term, 
when the premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid 
on or before the premium renew al date or within 30 days thereof. 
 
4. 
Certificate of Insurance - means the document issued by Us 
detailing the effective date, Insured Person(s), benefits, sums 
insured, Deductible, Franchise, premium and more generally all 
special condition(s) and or endorsement(s). 
 
5. 
Congenital Anomaly - means a condition(s) which is present 
since birth, and which is abnormal w ith reference to form, 
structure or position. 
 
6a. Internal Congenital Anomaly - which is not in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body. 
 
2 
 
d. 
maintains daily records of patients and will make these 
accessible 
to 
the 
Insurance 
company’s 
authorized 
Personnel 
 
8. 
Day - as defined for the purpose of payment of daily benefit 
means a period of 24 consecutive hours. 
 
9. 
Deductible - A deductible is a cost-sharing requirement under 
 
a health insurance policy that provides that the Insurer w ill not be 
liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies 
and for a specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash 
polices which will apply before any benefit are payable by the 
insurer. A deductible does not reduce the sum insured. The 
deductible is applicable per event. 
 
10. Diagnosis – means the definitive diagnosis made by a Physician 
as herein below defined, based upon such specific evidence, as 
referred to herein below in the definition of the particular Critical 
Illness concerned, or, in the absence of such specific evidence, 
based upon radiological, clinical, histological or laboratory 
evidence acceptable to the Company. 
 
In the event of any dispute or disagreement regarding the 
appropriateness or correctness of the diagnosis, We, at Our own 
expense, shall have the right to call for an examination, of either 
the Insured or the evidence used in arriving at such diagnosis, by 
an independent acknow ledged expert in the field of medicine 
concerned selected by Us and the opinion of such expert as to 
such diagnosis shall be binding on both the Insured and Us. 
 
11. Eligible Child(ren) - means a child (natural or legally adopted), 
who is financially dependent on the primary insured or proposer 
and does not have his / her independent sources of income. Such 
child(ren) of the Insured Person should be in age between six 6 
months to eighteen 18 years (23) (twenty three) years if attending 
as a full time student in an accredited Institution of Higher 
Learning) who are unmarried, who permanently reside with the 
Insured Person 
 
12. 
Eligible Family - means the Insured Person and/or the Insured 
 
Person’s Spouse and/or, the Insured Person’s Children. 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 3 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Grace Period - means the specified period of time immediately 
follow ing the premium due date during w hich a payment can be 
made to renew  or continue a policy in force w ithout loss of 
continuity benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of pre-
existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for 
which no premium is received. 
 
14. Hazardous Activities - the category of activities including but not 
limited to sky diving, parachuting, hand gliding, bungee jumping, 
scuba diving, white water rafting, mountain climbing, skiing 
whether indoor or outdoor. 
 
15. Hospital – means any institution established for in- patient care 
and day care treatment of illness and / or injuries and which has 
been registered as a hospital w ith the local authorities under the 
Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or 
is under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 
56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as 
under: 
 
• 
has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the 
clock; 
 
• 
has at least 10 inpatient beds, in towns having a population 
of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 inpatient beds in all 
other places; 
 
• 
has qualified medical practitioner (s) in charge round the 
clock; 
 
• 
has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where 
surgical procedures are carried out; 
 
• 
maintains daily records of patients and will make these 
accessible 
to 
the 
Insurance 
company’s 
authorized 
personnel. 
 
16. Hospitalisation/Hospital Confined/Hospital Confinement - 
means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 
consecutive In patient Care hours except for specified 
procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a 
period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
17. Inpatient / Inpatient Care - means treatment for which the 
insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours 
for a covered event. 
 
18. Insured Period(s) - means with respect to the Policy, the period 
commencing w ith the Effective Date of the Policy and terminating 
with the Expiration Date of the Policy as stated in the Policy 
Schedule and any subsequent period for which the Policy may be 
renewed. 
 
19. Insured Person - means the Insured Person between the ages 
of Eighteen (18) to Sixty Five (65) years old, and a resident of 
country of issuance who is covered under this Policy for the listed 
Insured Events as described in the policy schedule. Policy is 
how ever renewable annually for life upon payment of premium. 
 
20. Immediate Family Member means an Insured Person’s legal 
spouse; children; parents; mother-in-law; Father-in-law; legal 
guardian. 
 
 
 
 
21. Illness - means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition 
leading to the impairment of normal physiological function and 
requires medical Treatment. 
 
a. 
Acute Condition - is a disease, illness or injury that is likely 
to respond quickly to treatment w hich aims to return the 
person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full 
recovery. 
 
b. 
Chronic Condition - A chronic condition is defined as a 
disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the 
follow ing characteristics: 
 
• 
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through 
consultations, examinations, check-ups, and/or tests. 
 
• 
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of 
symptoms. 
 
• 
it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the 
patient to be specially trained to cope with it. 
 
• 
it continues indefinitely. 
 
• 
it recurs or is likely to recur. 
 
22. Injury - means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness 
or disease solely and directly caused by external, violent, visible 
and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
23. 
Medical Practitioner/Physician - means a person who holds 
 
a valid registration from the medical council of any State or 
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for 
Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or State 
Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine w ithin its 
jurisdiction, and is acting within its scope and jurisdiction of his 
license. 
 
Medical Practitioner w ill not be (a) an Insured Person or (b) Your 
Immediate Family Member or c) or anyone who is living in the 
same household as the Insured. 
 
24. Medically Necessary Treatment - means any treatment, tests, 
medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which: 
 
i. 
is required for the medical management of the illness or 
injury suffered by the insured; 
 
ii. 
must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, 
adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, 
or intensity; 
 
iii. 
must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; 
 
iv. 
must conform to the professional standards widely accepted 
in international medical practice or by the medical 
community in India. 
 
25. Medical Advise - means any consultation or advice from a 
medical Practitioner including the issuance of any prescription or 
follow up prescription. 
 
3 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 4 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
26. Medical Expenses - means those expenses that an Insured 
Person has necessarily and actually incurred for medical 
treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a 
Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would 
have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured 
and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality 
would have charged for the same medical treatment. 
 
27. Policy - means the insurance contract, the Policy Schedule, and 
any attached enrollment forms, endorsements, or riders. 
 
28. Policyholder - means the person(s) named in the Policy 
Schedule who is (are) responsible for payment of premiums. 
 
29. Policy Schedule - means the Policy Schedule attached to and 
forming part of the Policy. 
 
30. Pre-existing Condition - Pre-existing Disease means any 
condition, ailment or disease: 
 
a. 
That is/are diagnosed by a physician w ithin 48 months prior 
to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its 
reinstatement or 
 
b. 
For which medical advise or treatment was recommended 
by, or received from, a physician within 48 months prior to 
the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its 
re-instatement. 
 
31. Professional Sport - means a sport, which would remunerate 
 
a player in excess of 50% of his or her annual income as a 
means of their livelihood. 
 
32. Proposal Form - means any initial or subsequent Proposal / 
Declaration made by the Policyholder/ Insured Person and is 
deemed to be attached and which forms a part of this Policy. 
 
33. Renewal - means the terms on w hich the contract of insurance 
can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of grace 
period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of 
gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions 
and for all waiting periods 
 
34. Room Rent - means the amount charged by a Hospital towards 
Room and Boarding expenses and shall include the associated 
medical expenses. 
 
35. Sickness - means illness first manifested and contracted, and 
commencing, under the circumstances described in a Hazard 
while the Policy is still in force. 
 
36. Spouse – means Your legal husband or wife, who is between the 
Ages of 18 and 65 years old, and is living in Your residence. 
 
37. Surgeon - means a qualified medical practitioner who specializes 
in Surgeries and is legally authorized to practice medicine. 
 
38. Surgery/Surgical Procedure/Surgical Treatment - means 
manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for treatment of 
an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, 
diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and 
prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care center by 
a Medical Practitioner. 
 
 
 
 
39. Trauma, Traumatic - means a state directly related to an 
Accident. 
 
40. Waiting Period - means a period as given in the policy schedule 
which is calculated from the policy effective date. Any Claim due 
to or arising out of signs or the symptoms of the disease and/or 
condition which has occurred and/or manifested during the 
Waiting Period shall be excluded from coverage for the entire 
policy period including renewals. 
 
A waiting period will apply to all claims unless: 
 
a) 
The Insured Person has been insured under an Wellsurance 
Policy continuously and w ithout any break in the previous 
Policy Year, or 
 
If the Insured person renews with Us and increases the 
Sum Insured (other than as a result of the application of 
Benefit 2a) upon renewal with Us), then this exclusion shall 
only apply in relation to the amount by w hich the Sum 
Insured has been increase 
 
41. War - means war, whether declared or not, or any warlike 
activities, including use of military force by any sovereign nation 
to achieve economic, geographic, nationalistic, political, racial, 
religious or other ends. 
 
42. We/Us/Our - means Tata AIG General Insurance Company 
Limited. 
 
43. You/Your/Yourself - means the Policy Holder and/or Insured 
Person(s) who is named in the Policy Schedule. 
 
Part B: General Exclusions 
 
This entire Policy does not provide benefits for any loss resulting in 
whole or in part from, or expenses incurred, in respect of: 
 
1. 
Any Pre-existing Condition, any complication arising from it. 
Except if the insured has taken a similar Wellsurance Policy from 
Us and is covered w ithout a break, for a period of 4 consecutive 
years since inception of the first policy w ith Us. 
 
If the Insured person renews with Us and increases the Sum 
Insured upon renewal w ith Us, then this exclusion shall only apply 
in relation to the amount by w hich the Sum Insured has been 
increased. 
 
2. 
Intentionally self-inflicted Injury or illness, or sexually transmitted 
conditions 
 
3. 
War, civil war, invasion, insurrection, revolution, act of foreign 
enemy, hostilities (w hether War be declared or not), rebellion, 
mutiny, use of military pow er or usurpation of government or 
military power; or 
 
4. 
serving in any branch of the Military or Armed Forces of any 
country, whether in peace or War, and in such an event We, upon 
written notification by You, shall return the pro rata premium for 
any such period of service; or 
 
5. 
Ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any 
nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from burning nuclear fuel; 
or 
 
4 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 5 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
The radioactive, toxic, explosive or other dangerous properties of 
any explosive nuclear equipment or any part of that equipment; or 
 
7. 
Congenital anomalies or any complications or conditions arising 
therefrom; or 
 
8. 
Professional Sports, Hazardous Activities; or 
 
9. 
Cosmetic or plastic surgery or any elective surgery or cosmetic 
procedure, circumcision, (except as a result of an Injury caused 
by a Covered Accident while Our Policy is in force ) that improve 
physical appearance, surgical and non-surgical treatment of 
obesity (including morbid obesity) and weight control programs, 
or treatment of an optional nature; Routine health checks or 
convalescence, Custodial Care, general debility, lethargy, rest 
cure; expenses on vitamins, tonics and any other health 
supplement; vaccination, inoculation of any kind. 
 
10. Any investigation(s) or treatments not directly related to a 
Covered Illness or Covered Injury or the conditions or diagnosis 
necessitating hospital admission; or Any surgery done on the 
organ(s), if they are not infected or affected; 
 
11. Services, supplies, or treatment, including any period of Hospital 
confinement, w hich were not recommended, approved, and 
certified as Medically Necessary by a Physician; or 
 
12. Organ transplants that are considered experimental in nature; 
expenses incurred for hospitalization or surgery for donation of 
organs; or 
 
13. Pregnancy and all related conditions, including services and 
supplies related to the diagnosis or treatment of infertility or other 
problems related to inability to conceive a child; birth control, 
including surgical procedures and devices; This however does 
not include ectopic pregnancy proved by diagnostic means and is 
certified to be life threatening by the Physician; or 
 
14. Medical expenses incurred as the result of alcohol and/or drug 
abuse, addiction or overdose. 
 
15. Any surgery for donation of organs. 
 
16. Treatment of Spondylosis/ Spondilitis. 
 
17. Cost of Spectacles and contact lens, hearing aids, walkers, 
crutches, wheel chairs and such other aids. 
 
18. Any Ayurvedic, Homeopath or naturopathy treatments. 
 
Part C: Uniform Provisions 
 
1. 
Entire Contract - Changes: This Policy, together w ith the 
Proposal Form, as well as any forms, riders and endorsements 
and papers hereto, constitutes the entire contract of insurance. 
 
No change in this Policy shall be valid until approved by Our 
authorized officer and such approval is endorsed hereon. No 
agent has authority to change this Policy or to w aive any of the 
provisions of this Policy. 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Consideration - The premium payable under each Certificate of 
Insurance issued under this Policy is payable in installments: 
 
a) 
in the case of annually paid premium – before the beginning 
of each 12 monthly period when the annual premium is due, 
or 
 
b) 
in the case of Installment premiums – before the beginning 
of each such period when the premium installment is due. 
The coverage w ill cease if You do not make the payment on 
the due date. 
 
3. 
Effective Date: 
 
The Policy will start on the date specified on the Policy Schedule 
provided it is countersigned by Us and the total premium has 
been paid by You and realized by Us. 
 
How ever Your coverage under this Policy begins on the latest of : 
 
1) 
the Policy Effective date & hour as stated above; or 
 
2) 
the date on which the premium is paid w hen due. 
 
After taking effect each Policy may continue in effect after the 
renewal 
date 
subject 
to 
Part 
C, 
No. 
4, 
“RENEWAL 
CONDITIONS,” set forth herein. All subsequent Insured Periods 
shall begin and end at midnight. 
 
4. 
Renewal Conditions: 
 
The Policy and Certificate of Insurance may be renewed with Our 
consent by the payment in advance of the total premium specified 
by Us, which premium shall be at Our premium rate in force at the 
time of renewal. The policy and the Certificate of Insurance shall 
be ordinarily renewable except on grounds such as mis-
representation, fraud or moral hazard. 
 
We, however, are not bound to give notice that it is due for 
renewal. Unless renewed as herein provided, this Policy or 
Certificate of Insurance shall terminate at the expiration of the 
period for which premium has been paid. 
 
We may extend the renewal automatically if opted for by You in 
the Proposal Form and provided You are eligible for renewal as 
per age criteria as per Policy terms. 
 
The policy w ill be renew able provided premium has been paid on 
the renewal due date. How ever a grace period or delay in 
payment up to 30 days from the premium due date is allow ed 
where you can still pay your premium and continue your policy. 
Coverage would not be available for the period for which no 
premium has been received. Post 30 days from premium due 
date, if the premium is not paid, the policy w ill lapse i.e. be 
terminated. 
 
We w ill not apply any additional loading on your policy premium 
at renewal based on your claims experience. 
 
Any revision/modification in the product will be done w ith the 
approval of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
and w ill be intimated to You atleast 3 months in advance. 
 
 
5 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 6 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
Your renewal premium for this policy will not change unless we 
have revised the premium and obtained due approval from 
Authority. Your premium w ill only change if you move into a 
higher age group, or change the plan. 
 
The Insured may seek enhancement of Sum Insured in writing at 
the time of renewal, before the payment of premium. How ever, 
notw ithstanding enhancement, for claims arising in respect of 
accident, injury or illness contracted or suffered during a 
preceding Policy period, liability of the Company shall be only to 
the extent of the Sum Insured under the Policy in force at the time 
when it was contracted or suffered. The Enhanced Sum Insured 
will have a fresh proposal status where the waiting period, 
deductibles and exclusions shall apply afresh. 
 
5. 
Expiration Date: 
 
This Policy w ill terminate on the earliest of the follow ing dates: 
 
a) 
at the expiration of the period for which premium has been 
paid, 
 
b) 
expiration Date shown in the Policy Schedule, 
 
c) 
you cease to be a resident of India, 
 
d) 
the date You or We cancel the Certificate of Insurance. 
 
6. 
Cancellation Clause: We may cancel this Policy / Certificate of 
Insurance at any time on grounds of mis-representation, fraud, 
non-disclosure of material facts or non-cooperation of the insured 
by giving you 15 Days notice delivered to You, or mailed to Your 
last address as shown by Our records, stating when such 
cancellation shall be effective. In the event of cancellation of this 
Policy on grounds of mis-representation, fraud, non-disclosure of 
material facts, the policy shall stand cancelled ab-initio and there 
will be no refund of premium. In the event the policy is cancelled 
on grounds of non-cooperation of the insured or If you cancel the 
Policy, the premium shall be computed in accordance with Our 
short rate table for the period the Policy has been in force 
provided no claim has occurred up to the date of cancellation. In 
the event a claim has occurred in w hich case there shall be no 
return of premium. 
 
Installment premium - In event of cancellation by Us or if you 
cancel the policy, the debit for the subsequent installment from 
request w ill be discontinued. Any debit in the month post 
cancellation request will be refunded in full. 
 
Short rate table – 
 
Cancellation 
Annually 
 
 
Upto 1 month 
25% of annual premium 
 
 
Upto 3 months 
37.5% of annual premium 
 
 
Upto 4 months 
50% of annual premium 
 
 
Upto 6 months 
62.5% of annual premium 
 
 
Upto 8 months 
87.5% of annual premium 
 
 
Above 8 months 
100% of annual premium 
 
 
 
These are retention scales. 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Territory: This Policy applies to incidents anywhere in the world 
unless limited by Us through endorsement or specifically 
restricted in the Policy. 
 
8. 
Concealment Or Fraud: The entire Policy/Certificate of 
Insurance w ill be void if, whether before or after a loss, If You 
have, related to this insurance: 
 
a) 
intentionally or recklessly or otherwise concealed, not 
disclosed or misrepresented what is considered to be any 
material fact or circumstance; 
 
b) 
engaged in what is considered to be fraudulent, dishonest 
or deceitful conduct; or 
 
c) 
made false statements. 
 
9. 
Claims Procedure 
 
 
Treatment, 
Consultation We must be informed: 
 
or Procedure: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1) If any treatment for which a 
Immediately  and 
in  any 
 
claim may be made is to be 
event at least 48 hours prior 
 
taken  and 
that  treatment to  the  Insured 
Person’s 
 
requires Hospitalisation: 
admission. 
 
 
 
 
2) If any treatment for which a 
Within  24  hours  of  the 
 
claim may be made is to be 
Insured Person’s admission 
 
taken  and 
that  treatment to Hospital 
 
 
requires  Hospitalisation  in 
 
 
 
an Emergency: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) 
Notice of Claim/Loss: 
 
b) 
Claim Forms: We, upon receipt of a notice of claim, w ill 
furnish Your representative w ith such forms as We may 
require for filing proofs of loss. 
 
c) 
Time for Filing Claim Forms and Evidence: Completed 
claim forms and written evidence of loss must be furnished 
to Us w ithin 30 (thirty) Days after the date of such loss. 
Failure to furnish such evidence within the time required 
shall not invalidate nor reduce any claim if You can satisfy 
us that it was not reasonably possible for You to give proof 
within such time. The Company may accept claims where 
documents have been provided after a delayed interval only 
in special circumstances and for the reasons beyond the 
control of the insured. 
 
d) 
Supporting Documentation & Examination: You or 
someone claiming on Your behalf shall provide Us with all 
documentation, medical records and information. We may 
request to establish the circumstances of the claim, its 
quantum or Our liability for the claim w ithin 15 days of Your 
discharge from Hospitalisation or completion of treatment. 
Such documentation w ill include but is not limited to the 
follow ing: 
 
i. 
Our claim form, duly completed and signed for on 
behalf of the Insured Person. 
 
ii. 
Photocopy of Bills (including but not limited to 
pharmacy purchase bill, consultation bill, diagnostic 
 
6 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 7 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
bill) and any attachments thereto like receipts or 
prescriptions in support of treatment taken. 
 
iii. 
All reports, including but not limited to all medical 
reports, 
case 
histories, 
investigation 
reports, 
treatment papers, discharge summaries. 
 
iv. 
A precise diagnosis of the treatment for which a claim 
is made. 
 
v. 
A detailed list of the individual medical services and 
treatments provided and a unit price for each. 
 
vi. 
Prescriptions that name the Insured Person and in the 
case of drugs: the drugs prescribed, their price and a 
receipt for payment. Prescriptions must be submitted 
with the corresponding Doctor’s invoice. 
 
e) 
Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest): 
 
i. 
The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the 
case may be, within 30 days from the date of receipt 
of last necessary document. 
 
ii. 
In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the 
Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 
2% above the bank rate. 
 
iii. 
How ever, where the circumstances of a claim warrant 
an investigation in the opinion of the Company, it shall 
initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, 
in any case not later than 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, 
the Company shall settle or reject the claim w ithin 45 
days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document. 
 
iv. 
In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the 
Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from 
the date of receipt of last necessary document to the 
date of payment of claim. 
 
(Explanation: “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBl) at the beginning of 
the financial year in which claim has fallen due). The 
Clause shall be suitably modified by the insurer based 
on the amendment(s), if any to the relevant provisions 
of Protection of Policyholder’s Interests 
Regulations, 2017) 
 
f) 
Payment of Claim: All claims under this Policy that are 
payable to You/Your nominee shall be paid in Indian 
currency. However in case of installment premiums, the 
claim w ill be paid after deducting the balance premium 
installment left. 
 
10. Arbitration: If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the 
quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability being otherw ise 
admitted) such difference shall independently of all other 
questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be 
appointed in writing by the parties here to or if they cannot 
7 
 
 
 
 
agree upon a single arbitrator w ithin thirty days of any party 
invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three 
arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to be appointed by 
each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third 
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration 
shall be conducted under and in accordance w ith the provisions of 
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by 
Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 
2016). It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or 
dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein before 
provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability 
under or in respect of the policy. It is hereby expressly stipulated 
and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of 
action 
or 
suit 
upon 
the 
policy 
that 
award 
by 
such 
arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first 
obtained 
 
11. Assignment of Indemnities: Benefit Amount, if any, in case of 
Loss of Life resulting from any of the covered benefits, is payable 
as defined in the Policy Schedule by default to the nominee 
declared by You, in absence of which will be payable to your 
estate. Any payment We make in good faith pursuant to this 
provision shall fully discharge Us to the extent of the payment. 
 
12. Consent of Nominee: Consent of the nominee, if any, shall not 
be a pre-requisite for any change of nominee or to any other 
changes in this Policy. 
 
13. Change of Nominee: No change of nominee under this Policy 
shall bind Us, unless consent / or such change thereto is formally 
endorsed thereon by Our authorized officer. 
 
14. Medical Examination: We, at Our ow n expense, shall have the 
right and opportunity to obtain a post mortem report in case the 
same has been conducted and any other medical Reports as 
permitted by law . Your or Your estate’s compliance w ith the need 
for such examination report is a condition precedent to 
establishing liability under the Policy. 
 
15. Legal Actions: Without prejudice to Uniform Provision 10 above, 
no action at law  or in equity shall be brought to recover on this 
Policy prior to the expiration of sixty (60) Days after written 
evidence has been furnished in accordance with the requirements 
of this Policy. 
 
If We disclaim liability to You for any claim, and if You do not 
notify Us in writing within one (1) year from the date of receipt of 
the notice of such disclaimer that You do not accept such 
disclaimer and intend to recover this claim from Us, then the 
claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned 
and shall not thereafter be recoverable under this Policy. 
 
16. Misstatement of Age: If Your Age has been misstated; all 
amounts payable under this Policy shall be adjusted to the 
coverage amount that would have been purchased for the 
premium paid. In the event Your Age has been misstated, and if 
according to Your correct Age, the coverage provided by the 
Policy would not have become effective, or would have ceased 
prior to the acceptance of such premium or premiums, then 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 8 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
Our liability during the period You are not eligible for coverage, 
shall be limited to the refund, upon written request, of all 
premiums paid for the period not covered by the Policy. 
 
17. Compliance with Policy Provisions: Failure to comply w ith any 
of the provisions contained in this Policy shall invalidate all claims 
hereunder. 
 
18. Limitations. 
 
a) 
If an Insured Person suffers a covered Illness or Sickness or 
Disease for which benefits, are payable under more than 
one such Similar Policy issued by Us, then the Insured 
Person shall have the right to require a settlement of his 
claim in terms of any of his policies and contribution as 
defined in the policy will not apply. 
 
b) 
In case of more than one surgery done during the same 
hospitalization period, we shall pay against only one - the 
largest of surgeries, as covered under the Policy. 
 
c) 
We w ill not pay more than once for the same Accident, 
Injury or Illness, resulting in any Hospitalization, treatment 
or Surgery, during the Policy period unless subsequent 
hospitalization is within one period of confinement. 
 
d) 
Only one Daily Benefit is provided for any one Day of 
confinement, regardless of the number of covered Accident, 
Injury or Illness, for which the confinement is required. 
 
19. Other Interest: No person(s) other than you and/or your nominee 
(s) named by you in this application form can claim or sue us 
under this policy. 
 
20. Reasonable Care and Assistance: You and each Insured 
Person must take all reasonable steps to avoid or reduce, as far 
as possible, any loss or damage. 
 
In addition, You and each Insured Person must assist Us in any 
manner We may reasonably require in relation to the 
investigation or settlement of a claim or the preservation or 
enforcement of any rights of subrogation to w hich we may be 
entitled. 
 
21. Alterations: Change in Sum Insured can be done only at the 
time of Renew al subject to Uniform Provision 4 above. 
 
22. Free Look Period: You have a period of 15 days from the date of 
receipt of the Policy document to review  the terms and conditions 
of this Policy. If You have any objections to any of the terms and 
conditions, You have the option of cancelling the Policy stating 
the reasons for cancellation and You will be refunded the 
premium paid by You after adjusting the amounts spent on stamp 
duty charges and proportionate risk premium. You can cancel 
Your Policy only if You have not made any claims under the 
Policy. All Your rights under this Policy w ill immediately stand 
extinguished on the free look cancellation of the Policy. Free look 
provision is not applicable and available at the time of renewal of 
the Policy. 
 
23. In the likelihood of this policy being w ithdrawn in future, we w ill 
intimate you about the same 3 months prior to expiry of the 
8 
 
 
 
 
policy. You w ill have the option to migrate to similar health 
insurance policy available w ith us at the time of renewal with all 
the accrued continuity benefits, If any, provided the policy has 
been maintained w ithout a break -. 
 
24. We w ill offer the Insured Person an option to migrate to similar 
health insurance Policy w ith Us provided that: 
 
• 
Insured Person has been insured with Us for first time under 
this Policy as a dependant. 
 
• 
This option for migration to similar Indemnity health 
insurance policy shall be exercised by the Insured Person 
only when he / she is at the end of specified exit age, and 
certainly at the time of renewal only. 
 
• 
Insured Person w ill be offered continuity of coverage & 
suitable credits, if any, for all the previous policy years, 
provided the policy has been maintained w ithout a break. 
 
Part D: Coverage 
 
Benefits Provisions 
 
While this Policy is in force, the Company shall provide the Benefits of 
this Policy stated on the Policy Schedule or any Endorsement w hen the 
Insured is diagnosed to be suffering from a Critical Illness as defined 
herein below. 
 
Section: Critical Illness Benefits 
 
While this Policy is in force, the Company shall provide the benefit in 
one lump sum as stated in the Schedule of Benefits subject to the 
provisions, conditions and limitations contained herein or which may be 
endorsed hereinafter if the Insured is diagnosed to be suffering from a 
Critical Illness as defined herein below and if all of the follow ing 
conditions are satisfied. 
 
1. 
The Insured Person experiences a Critical Illness specifically 
listed and defined in this Policy; and 
 
2. 
The Critical Illness experienced by the Insured is the first 
incidence of that Critical Illness; and 
 
3. 
The signs or symptoms of the Critical Illness experienced by the 
Insured Person commenced beyond waiting period of more than 
90 days follow ing the Inception Date and 
 
4. 
None of the General or Specific Limitations or Exclusions 
specifically contained in this Policy applies. 
 
5. 
The person has to survive the illness by (30) days or more, from 
the date of diagnosis. 
 
Only one lump sum payment shall be provided during Insured’s Policy 
Period regardless the number of Critical Illness, incapacities or 
treatments suffered by him/her. This Benefit will be terminated after the 
lump sum payment. The rest of Critical Illness Benefits will be available 
in the renewal policy. 
 
Covered Critical Illnesses 
 
The Critical Illness Benefit covers any of the follow ing illnesses upon 
diagnosis being: 
 
C1) Cancer of specified severity 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen) Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 9 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
C2) First Heart Attack of specified severity 
 
C3) Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
 
C4) Kidney Failure requiring regular dialysis 
 
C5) Coma of specified severity 
 
C6) Total Blindness (due to acute sickness or accident) 
 
C7) Major Burns 
 
C8) Multiple Sclerosis with persisting symptoms 
 
C9) Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 
 
C10) Open Chest CABG 
 
C11) Major Organ /Bone Marrow  Transplant 
 
C1)  Cancer – of specified severity 
 
A malignant tumour characterized by the uncontrolled growth & spread 
of malignant cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This 
diagnosis must be supported by histological evidence of malignancy & 
confirmed by a pathologist. The term cancer includes leukemia, 
lymphoma and sarcoma. 
 
The follow ing are excluded – 
 
1) 
Tumours show ing the malignant changes of carcinoma in situ & 
tumours which are histologically described as premalignant or 
non invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of 
breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 & CIN-3. 
 
2) 
Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma 
 
3) 
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as 
having a Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at 
least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0......... 
 
4) 
Papillary micro - carcinoma of the thyroid less than 1 cm in 
diameter 
 
5) 
Chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
 
6) 
Microcarcinoma of the bladder 
 
7) 
All tumours in the presence of HIV infection 
 
C2) First Heart Attack – of specified severity 
 
The first occurrence of myocardial infarction which means the death of 
a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to 
the relevant area. The diagnosis for this will be evidenced by all of the 
follow ing criteria: 
 
a. 
a history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis 
of Acute Myocardial Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain) 
 
b. 
new  characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
 
c. 
elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other 
specific biochemical markers. 
 
The follow ing are excluded: 
 
1) 
Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) w ith 
elevation of Troponin I or T; 
 
 
 
 
2) 
Other acute Coronary Syndromes (3). Any type of angina pectoris 
 
 
C3) Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
 
Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological 
sequelae. This includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an 
intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial 
source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist medical 
practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as 
typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. 
 
Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months 
has to be produced. 
 
The follow ing are excluded: 
 
• 
Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
 
• 
Traumatic injury of the brain 
 
• 
Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or 
vestibular functions. 
 
C4) Kidney Failure requiring regular dialysis 
 
End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of 
both kidneys to function, as a result of which either regular renal 
dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal 
transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a 
specialist medical practitioner 
 
C5) Coma of specified severity 
 
A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external 
stimuli or internal needs. 
 
This diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following: 
 
• 
no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours; 
 
• 
life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and 
 
• 
permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 
30 days after the onset of the coma. 
 
The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
Coma resulting directly from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
C6) Total Blindness (due to acute sickness or accident) 
 
Total irreversible loss of sight in both eyes, duly certified by an 
ophthalmologist’s report, as a result of acute sickness or Accident. 
Loss of sight will be deemed to have occurred if the degree of sight 
remaining after correction in both eyes is 3/60 or less on the Snellen 
scale. 
 
Diagnostic criteria: Attending ophthalmologist’s report 
 
C7) Major Burns 
 
Third Degree Burns (full thickness skin destruction) covering at least 
tw enty percent (20%) of the body surface. 
 
9 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 
CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
--- Page 10 ---
Wellsurance Family Policy 
 
UIN: TATHLIP21255V022021 
 
 
 
 
 
C8) Multiple Sclerosis with persisting symptoms 
 
The definite occurrence of multiple sclerosis. The diagnosis must be 
supported by all of the follow ing: 
 
• 
investigations including typical MRI and CSF findings, which 
unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to be multiple sclerosis; 
 
• 
there must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory 
function, which must have persisted for a continuous period of at 
least 6 months, and 
 
• 
well documented clinical history of exacerbations and remissions 
of said symptoms or neurological deficits with atleast two clinically 
documented episodes atleast one month apart. 
 
• 
Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are 
excluded. 
 
C9) Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 
 
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of 
injury or disease of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical 
practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis w ill be permanent 
with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months. 
 
C10) Open Chest CABG 
 
The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one 
or more coronary arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, by 
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The diagnosis must be supported 
by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
 
Excluded are: 
 
(1) 
Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
 
(2) 
any key-hole or laser surgery. 
 
C11) Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant 
The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
 
• 
One of the follow ing human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, 
pancreas, that resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the 
relevant organ, or 
 
• 
Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The 
undergoing of a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist 
medical practitioner. 
 
The follow ing are excluded: 
 
• 
Other stem-cell transplants 
 
• 
Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
Specific Exclusions: Critical Illnesses Section: 
 
1) 
Any Illness, sickness or disease, other than specified as Critical 
Illness, as mentioned in the policy schedule, or 
 
2) 
Any Critical Illness of w hich, the signs or symptoms first occurred 
prior to or w ithin waiting period (90 days) follow ing the Inception 
Date, or 
 
 
 
 
3) 
Any Critical Illness resulting from a pre-existing condition as 
defined in the Policy wordings, or 
 
4) 
Any Critical Illness based on a Diagnosis made by the Insured or 
his/her Immediate Family Member or anyone who is living in the 
same household as the Insured or by a herbalists, acupuncturist 
or other non-traditional health care provider. 
 
Section: In-Hospital Benefit for Accidents 
 
We w ill pay a Daily Benefit for each Day You are an Inpatient in a 
Hospital w ithin the Republic of India due to Injury or Accidents subject 
to the Deductible shown in the Policy Schedule. The Period of 
Confinement must be Medically Necessary and recommended by a 
Physician. The total benefits provided for any One Period of 
Confinement are subject to the In-Hospital maximum show n in the 
Policy Schedule. During one period of confinement requiring ICU and 
regular hospitalization, we shall pay against ICU or Daily Hospital Cash 
as may be applicable subject to deductible. 
 
Definition: 
 
Daily Benefit - means the amount payable for each Day spent in the 
Hospital. 
 
Deductible –1st day of hospitalization as an inpatient 
 
One Period of Confinement - means a Hospital confinement due to the 
same Injury or Accident unless separated by at least 45 (Forty Five) 
Days. 
 
Period of Confinement - means a period of consecutive Days of 
confinement as an Inpatient caused by an Accident, or Injury. How ever, 
successive confinements as an Inpatient caused by or attributable to 
the same Accident, or Injury, are considered to be part of the same 
Period of Confinement, unless the discharge date for the prior 
confinement is separated from the admission date for the next 
confinement by at least 45 (Forty Five) Days. 
 
Only one Daily Benefit is provided for any one Day of confinement, 
regardless of the number of covered Accidents, or Injuries, for which 
the confinement is required. 
 
Exclusions: 
 
In addition to the General Exclusions listed in this Policy this coverage 
section shall not cover: 
 
1. 
Hospitalization outside the Republic of India; or 
 
2. 
Pregnancy and resulting childbirth, miscarriage 
 
3. 
Disease of the female/male organs of reproduction; 
 
4. 
Routine physical exams; or 
 
5. 
Elective, cosmetic or plastic surgery, except as a result of an 
Injury caused by a covered Accident while the policy is in force; 
or 
 
6. 
Rest cures. 
 
Section: In-Hospital Benefit For Sickness 
 
We w ill pay a Daily Benefit for each Day You are an Inpatient in a 
Hospital w ithin the Republic of India due to Illness, or Disease or 
Sickness subject to the Deductible shown in the Policy Schedule and 
 
10 
 
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited - Registered Off ice: Peninsula Business Park, Tower A, 15th Floor, G.K. Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013 
 
24X7 Toll Free No: 1800 266 7780 or 1800 22 9966 (Senior Citizen)  Fax: 022 6693 8170 
Email: customersupport@tataaig.com Website: www.tataaig.com 
 
IRDA of India Registration No: 108 CIN: U85110MH2000PLC128425 
